---
title: "My Experience with amFOSS Tasks"
---
During the induction program, i really liked the amFOSS presentation and The work they are doing at the club, so i decided to try it out.
I knew there would be a set of tasks to complete, but when i saw the tasks i was shocked at first to see all the tasks, it all looked too much for a freshman. But now as i started doing my tasks i realised most of the tasks are not that hard provided we read the information given in the instructions with a few exceptions. I had quite a few problems in the begining with VScode as it always gives me path errors and some files were missing but i managed to fix almost all errors with a lot of googling.


Here i am going to describe my personal experience with each task

## **Task-00 Ubuntu**
This was quite straightforward as i did install ubuntu a long time ago. Since i am dual booting this helps me optimize my laptop and keep it well organized by keeping all the programing related stuff in ubuntu and my normal apps in Windows. 

## **Task-01 Staring repo**
This was quite interesting but easy as the code was already given to us and all we had to do was copy the code into the webpage

## **Task-02 Git/linux Commands**
This helped me learn all the linux terminal comands which i now understand is very powerful.
The idea of finding values and plugging it into maps as coordinates was interesting. Not surprisingly the coordinates was pointing to the college itself

## **Task-03 HackerRank**
Programing. This was the one i jumped to first because i learned Python for 2 years in school but it turns out the questions were a bit hard, which makes it a bit fair and unfair i guess to people new to programing i did 2 questions and reached top 15 according to hackerRank

## **Task-04**
TBD

## **Task-05 LetMeSee.c**
After watching cs50 lectures c programing was easy i managed to fix all bugs but had to spend a little more time fixing the logic otherwise this was ok

## **Task-06**
TBD

## **Task-07 Golang WebScraper**
I Really liked this task to be honest. To be able to scrape data with just a few lines of code is an extremely powerful feature. I used colly web scraper to scrape the data and compiled it in vscode

## **Task-08 JavaScript Explorer**
I needed quite a bit of prep for this, after watching week-8 of cs50 and some beginners guide on YT this was very easy and fun to do.
But sadly i couldnt extract the data from json format for chart and i couldnt find any good references so i took all the data and put it into script one by one. idk if i was meant to do that

## **Task-09 Personal Website**
Basically this blog is the task so if you are seeing this blog means i did it..

## **Task-10 CS50**
These Lectures helped me a lot. Now i feel i have almost the same power in C as i have in Python with just a few videos which were perfectly explained by David(The Teacher of the Harvard Course) the problemsets are very unique and fun. I enjoyed the filter task where we have to make a image into black and white, sepia,make it reflect, blurring etc

## **Task-11**
I was never good at Designing just for this task i got photoshop and my friend Taught me how to make a very basic poster landscape and i did the rest.

## **Task-12**


## **Task-13**
Saw the question and realised this was beyond me or atleast the current me..

## **Task-14 bandit**
This was my most favourite task of them all. I really enjoyed this task,almost all levels were unique except the first 2 or 3 for which the directory was already given. the levels in which we had to sort and find unique or find the password after the word millionth in a big collection was very interesting
